An effective laptop anti-theft program is a comprehensive suite of measures, policies, and systems designed to protect your organization’s mobile assets. Specifically, it:
  Preventive measures serve as the cornerstone of an anti-theft program. These can include anything from physical security devices — like a cable lock that secures the laptop to an immovable object — to visual deterrents like security stickers that discourage theft by indicating that the laptop can be tracked.
  Another way to help prevent laptop theft is by keeping a close eye on the laptop’s usage, including logging access attempts and tracking the laptop’s location through IP logging and user activity. In a corporate environment, this may involve detailed logging of network access times, attempted and successful logins, and the execution of specific applications. By logging activity and access, you can effectively create an audit trail that you can use to trace the laptop’s activity before and after a theft.
  In the event of a theft, a comprehensive anti-theft program gives you several tools for mitigating the damage and potentially recovering the stolen asset. For example, some anti-theft software might include remote kill capabilities, allowing you to encrypt sensitive information completely so unauthorized individuals can’t access it.Other software will enable you to remotely lock the laptop (rendering it unusable), display a message to the person who found (or stole) the laptop, or even automatically take action when a laptop leaves a geofence. And location tracking features can help pinpoint your laptop’s location, assisting law enforcement in recovery efforts.
